are your story views at an all-time low
does it feel like back in the day you
could get way more views on your
Instagram stories but recently it's
become a lot tougher well getting more
views on your Instagram stories
absolutely has become tougher over the
last few years and one of the big
reasons for that is because of a change
in the Instagram stories algorithm and
so in today's episode of build your
tribe I as your host Brock Johnson am
going to walk you through the changes in
the algorithm what you should avoid in
order to keep your story views high and
I will be sharing with you in easy
four-step formula that has been proven
to significantly boost your story views
we're talking about 2x 3x even some
people experiencing 10x the number of
views on their Instagram stories in just
a 24-hour period thanks to this
four-step
formula before we hop into things I will
quickly say that if there are any
members of the insta clubhub who are
watching or listening to this podcast
right now we have actually done an
in-depth live training on exactly what
I'm about to cover today in the insta
clubhub where we go much more in-depth
we give more tutorials and more examples
of the things I'm about to be sharing
with you but nonetheless I know a lot of
you are not quite insta clubbers yet or
maybe you have no idea what the insta
Club up is so let me just get right into
sharing with you what are some big
things that you need to avoid on your
Instagram stories the first thing that I
would recommend avoiding is posting a
ton of Instagram stories and if you want
me to put an exact number on it I would
recommend not posting more than five
Instagram stories within a 24-hour
period now this already might be
mind-blowing to a lot of people and
might shock a lot of people because this
is a complete opposite of what we used
to teach and what everyone used to
believe to be true on Instagram and it's
because this is what used to be true
with the old algorithm the old Instagram
stories algorithm really used to
prioritize recently posted stories and
so it made sense for you to post a new
Instagram story every couple of hours
throughout the day to make sure that
your story was at the front of the queue
and to make sure that you were getting
more views we used to recommend posting
at least 10 Instagram stories every
single day if your goal was maximum
views because again the thought was if
you were posting regularly you were
constantly being moved back to the front
of the lineup and thus you were going to
accumulate more views throughout that
24-hour period but now the algorithm has
changed so less is more the less stories
you post in a 24-hour period typically
the more views your stories will get in
fact according to some recent data that
we have been collecting each subsequent
story that you post within a 24-hour
period lowers your total views for that
24 hour period by about 15 to 20% and
now you might be asking why has this
change taken place besides just the fact
that the algorithm is now different
essentially what the algorithm is now
prioritizing is engagement per story so
the total amount of Engagement positive
engagement that is now you might be
asking yourself why has this change
taken place why is the algorithm
different essentially what the algorithm
is now prioritizing rather than just how
many stories have you posted in a
24-hour period is the amount of positive
engagement per story let me break down
what that equation essentially means
positive engagement is a form of
interaction that shows attention so if
someone is liking your story if they are
replying to your story if you have one
of those stickers on your story that has
maybe a poll or a slider bar those sorts
of things are positive engagement other
forms of positive engagement include
holding your finger down on the
Instagram story thus pausing it and
extending the watch time of the story or
tapping on the left hand side of the
screen to start the story over or to go
back to the previous story all of those
things are considered positive forms of
Engagement negative forms of Engagement
are tapping on the right hand side of
the screen thus skipping the story
swiping from the right to the left thus
skipping the entire story for that day
or completely closing out of Instagram
stories or the Instagram app as a whole
those are negative forms of Engagement
and then of course someone can just not
engage with your story like if they just
open it and kind of let it play all the
way through but according to our recent
data that is extremely unlikely and
about 90 to 95% of story viewers will
interact in some way either positively
or negatively so essentially the
algorithm is looking at how much
positive engagement is each story
getting so how does this relate to the
total number of stories that you've
posted well if you have posted 10
stories in a 24-hour period unless each
of those 10 stories is extremely
engaging it's likely that as time
progresses people will get bored people
will tap on the right side of the screen
to move to the next slide people people
will swipe away all together or maybe
you just don't have a way for them to
engage with every single one of those 10
stories think about the last time you
opened up Instagram stories and someone
had multiple little dashes thus multiple
little stories posted at that time most
likely they didn't have a way to engage
with every single story and even if they
did you probably didn't engage with
every single one of those stories and
thus because of this the overall number
of total positive engagement divided by
the total number of stories is worth so
again the first thing that I would
recommend doing is posting less stories
per day and hopefully that's a positive
word of encouragement or a breath of
fresh air for a lot of people because I
know back in the day when I used to say
you know Post 10 stories per day it was
overwhelming for people and it felt like
another thing that you have to do more
content that you have to create but now
you don't have to post as much content
you don't have to create as much for
your Instagram stories you can get by
with just a couple of Instagram stories
per day or less we'll get to that later
the second thing that I would recommend
avoiding on your Instagram story is
talking head videos I would recommend
posting the least amount of talking head
videos possible and by talking head
videos I mean where you are just talking
to the camera FaceTime style selfie
style you know you just have your phone
you have the Instagram stories open and
you're just recording yourself talking
for 60 seconds or so and then posting
that to your Instagram stories those I
would highly recommend avoiding on your
Instagram stories and there's a few
reasons for that number one as the
consumer aka the viewer of that talking
head video it's almost impossible to
inter interact with that video the only
options I have if I am watching one of
your talking head stories is to hold my
finger down and pause the story tap on
the right side to skip ahead which again
remember that is a negative form of
Engagement skipping to the next story or
tapping on the left hand side of the
screen and skipping back to the very
beginning there's no way for me to slow
it down to speed it up if I miss a
single word or sentence there's no way
for me to rewind a few seconds and
rewatch it I have to either commit to
rewatching the entire story or I'm going
to do what most people do which is just
skip the rest of the story and say eh it
was probably not that important I'm just
going to skip it and that's really why
talking head Instagram stories are
hurting views so much is that they are
getting consistent forms of negative
engagement people will watch for 10 15
seconds they'll get bored a human
attention span is constantly getting
shorter and so they'll skip to your next
slide or they'll skip your story
altogether which again both of those
things are negative forms of Engagement
so unless you have something super juicy
you have something that just has to be
delivered via talking head or something
that wouldn't make sense posted as a
text post or something else I would
recommend avoiding talking head stories
also another big problem that we have
all run into with Instagram stories as
the creator of the stories is that
stories originally were 15 seconds long
so we were very handcuffed we could only
put maybe one two or if you talked fast
three sentences in that 15-second window
and then we had to stop and record a new
15secs it forced us to be concise it
forced us to be to the point and if
someone missed something even if they
were almost at the end of the video at
most they would have to watch like 12
seconds to get back to where they were
which isn't that big of a deal but then
Instagram made it so that we could
record 60 seconds at once and then
Instagram would chop it into 4 15c
segments so it was still not bad but all
of a sudden now we could record 60
seconds and now Instagram has made it so
that we can post 60 seconds without
having it cut into those 50 second clips
and so what are we doing as content
creators and business owners we're
taking up the full 60 seconds if you
give me 60 seconds to speak I'm going to
talk for 60 seconds we're all yappers
especially when we get on our Instagram
stories we have lost this ability to be
concise to be clear and direct because
we don't have to be we can kind of
ramble on we can diverge and go on these
other sub paths and go down these rabbit
holes and we can get lost within our
train of thought and so because of that
we've all rambled on a little bit it's
kind of like when you're having a
conversation with someone at a dinner
party and they just won't stop talking
like your eyes have glazed over you're
not paying attention anymore you're
thinking about something else but
they're just still yapping away the same
thing is happening when people are
watching your Instagram stories and
you're talking for 60 seconds straight
now don't get me wrong there are
definitely people who can be really
captivating for 60 seconds and who can
hold our attention for 60 seconds but
for most of us I would recommend not
using the full 60 seconds and if you do
have to take up the full 60 seconds
because it just is is like I said that
engaging that captivating or something
that has to be shared via a talking head
story record the full 60 seconds save it
to your camera roll and then once it's
in your camera roll chop it up into
shorter bite-size bits like chop it up
into one sentence at a time or even you
know 15 seconds at a time just so it's a
little bit easier on the consumer to be
able to watch said story without having
to completely rewind or just skip it all
together the third thing that I would
recommend doing less of on your
Instagram stories is sharing your feed
posts to your stories now I need you to
hear me out on this one because the
first time I ever posted about this on
Instagram it kind of went viral because
people were like oh my gosh this is so
controversial what the heck why would I
not share my feed post to my story this
doesn't make any sense let me explain if
your goal is to get more views on your
feed post so your real your photo your
Carousel if your goal is to get more
views on your feed post then yes it
would benefit you to share it to your
story because any views that your
stories get that day count as views on
your real and of course it just
increases the likelihood that someone
even knows that you made a feed post
that they go and engage with it they
comment share like whatever it increases
that likelihood so yes if your goal is
to get more views on the feed share it
to your story however if your goal is to
increase your story views which I'm
going to assume it is that's why you
clicked on this video that's why you're
listening to me Yap my head off it's
going to be beneficial to not share your
feed posts to your stories Studies have
shown in Instagram's CEO has confirmed
this himself when people are sharing
their feed post to their stories story
views go down and last but not least the
fourth thing that I would recommend
avoiding on your Instagram stories is
using the link sticker too much or
really honestly using the link sticker
at all using the link sticker has been
proven to decrease your views and I
think it's essentially because when
people click on that link sticker it is
a negative form of Engagement because
they are leaving your Instagram story
and of course that's the minority of
people who are actually clicking on the
sticker whereas the majority of people
are likely just swiping and skipping
your entire story altoe because they're
not in the mood to be sold to so really
all of these changes to the Instagram
stories algorithm can be summed up by
saying less is more less total stories
less talking head stories less feed
posts shared to your stories and less
link stickers in your Instagram stories
if you stop watching or listening to
this podcast right now and you just
follow those four things your story
views are likely going to slightly
increase over the next few weeks
but if you do the four-step formula that
I'm about to walk you through your story
views will Skyrocket almost immediately
like within the 24-hour period that this
formula is implemented you will see a
big spike in views nothing is a
guarantee on social media but this is
one of those things that's super close
to a guarantee and it's actually not
necessarily a new trick or hack it's
something that's actually been around
for quite a while and when it was first
created I was a big doubter of it I was
like there's no way this will work I
doubt it like that it's just it goes
against everything that I've been
teaching it goes against everything that
we've been seeing in the data but over
the last few years we've seen a big
shift like I've been talking about in
the stories algorithm and so now this
four-step formula works better than ever
and I do it on a weekly basis and
besides just regularly routinely doing
this four-step formula I use it
strategically when I want to boost my
views so if I have a post that I really
want to make sure people see or if I
have a message that I want to make gets
across or if I this is really the one
where I use it the most if I have a sale
or a promotion or a freebie or a lead
magnet that I really want to reach the
maximum possible people that's when I
will use this strategy and actually just
last week I used this strategy and
achieved my highest viewed Instagram
story of all time which I know I haven't
told you the four-step formula yet it
just proves that this formula can be
used over and over and over again even
on a weekly basis it's not like you use
it once and you're done you can use it
whenever you want to strategically boost
your Instagram story views all right now
with all that out of the way let's walk
through this four-step formula and the
first one or two steps you might be
familiar with especially if you've kind
of been in this world of trying to grow
on Instagram or subscribing to Instagram
coaches following us and and following
our tips and advice you might have heard
the first two steps before but it's
really in step three and step four where
the new algorithm is going to reward you
the heaviest so step one of part of this
formula is to let all all of your
existing stories expire so if you post a
story right at the beginning of this
podcast you're going to have to wait 24
hours for that story to expire if you
posted a story 7 hours ago do 24 minus 7
which is 17 wait 17 hours for all of
your stories to expire essentially you
should have nothing on your Instagram
stories that's step one and what this
allows is essentially your equation can
reset the algorithm can reset remember
earlier when we talked about that
equation of total amount of positive
engagement divided by total number of
stories posted well if you have zero
engagement divided by zero stories it's
reset right it's totally undefined there
is no metric for the algorithm to look
at and so it kind of wipes the Slate
clean step number two is to wait an
additional 24 hours as a minimum now if
you're really antsy or if you're short
on time if you're watching this the day
before you need your stories to spike
because you're doing a launch tomorrow
you don't have to wait the full 2 4
hours but if you want the best possible
results I would recommend waiting at
least 24 hours after your stories have
expired so if you posted a story on
Tuesday at 3: in the afternoon that
story would expire on Wednesday at 3 in
the afternoon and I would recommend
waiting until Thursday at 3: in the
afternoon before you do step three of
this four-step formula step three is to
post a single text post story and there
are multiple criteria that I'm going to
recommend to you within this single text
post Story the first one is obviously in
the name it's a text post story so it's
not talking head it's not a photo it is
either a blank background or a very
simple image with text on top of it a
text based story if you want an example
of this check out my highlights on
Instagram Brock 11 Johnson is my
Instagram handle if you look at my
highlights you will see some great
examples of what this looks like but
really don't over complicate it it is a
black background with white text or just
a solid color with a solid piece of text
that's easy to read on top of it within
that text the first sentence needs to be
a hook something that is going to grab
people's attention if you need help
coming up with hooks we do have a free
list of hooks it's down in the show
notes below uh 25 viral hooks we
researched a couple hundred viral posts
on both Instagram and Tik Tok we
transcribed all of them and then we
basically just compiled a list of the
top 25 most frequently occurring Hooks
and so that is free for you to download
it's in the show notes below that's what
I would recommend starting your text
post story with so again a single story
with text in the first sentence of that
text is a hook that's going to grab
people's attention and stop their scroll
or I guess if they're watching your
Instagram stories stop their tapping
then after that initial hook you're
going to add multiple paragraphs of text
now this is a part where often times
people will be like what I'm writing
paragraphs I just mean like one to two
sentence you know sentence chunks or
blocks if you will it doesn't have to be
a 5 to eight sentence long MLA style
paragraph like we learned in high school
school it can just be you know a
sentence or two you know Skip a a few
lines a sentence or two skip a few lines
three sentences skip a few lines but at
least two to three paragraphs of text
and I know this might be surprising this
is might be very different than what
you've been posting on your Instagram
stories but here's why this works we're
putting lots of text on this singular
Instagram story so the viewer in order
to read said text is going to hold their
finger down on the screen thus pausing
your story which is a positive form of
Engagement in order to read all of that
text if you were to only put one
sentence they might be able to read that
sentence without having to hold their
finger down that's why we want multiple
sentences if not multiple paragraphs of
text and in addition to holding their
finger down the watch time is also
increasing which is another form of
positive engagement usually photo or
text based Instagram stories really
anything that is a nonv video that
you're posting to your Instagram stories
will be up for five seconds or 7 seconds
and so if someone's holding their finger
down to read those multiple paragraphs
and it takes them 10 seconds or 15
seconds that is a significantly higher
watch rate than the average Instagram
story and this is a really uh positive
form of Engagement for your Instagram
story then once we have those multiple
paragraphs written we are going to end
the text with a call to action but not
just any call to action we are going to
encourage people to respond to the story
with a specific keyword in order to
receive something in return essentially
we are going to use DM automation my
favorite tool for DM automation is many
chat but I know there are multiple out
there minich chat is the most common and
the most widely used I also think it's
the easiest to use and the one that I
would trust the most but hey do your own
research to find whatever uh DM
automation tool you prefer but
essentially what's going on here is
people are responding with a keyword
that you tell them to and then when they
do so they are getting something in
response maybe it's a free download
maybe it's a guide maybe it's a list of
recommendations maybe it's a recipe but
again going back to the idea of positive
forms of Engagement a reply is one of
the highest ranking positive forms of
Engagement and usually getting replies
to your Instagram stories can be kind of
challenging but when you give people a
direct word Just One Singular word it's
easy for them to type they don't have to
think about it they can just type what
you said to type and they're not just
responding for your sake they're
responding for their sake because now
they're going to get something again
usually like a freebie or a download or
a recipe or a guide just something of
value in exchange for a few letters
typed into the reply bar again if you
look at any of my highlights on my
Instagram profile you'll see plenty of
examples of this I have multiple
paragraphs of text and then at the
bottom it will say something like reply
55 stories and I'll send you 55 story
ideas or reply 25 Hooks and I'll send
you 25 hook ideas that's what's going on
here people are sending me that keyword
it's helping my story get more views and
in exchange for sending me that keyword
I am sending them the free guide the
free download whatever it may be so if
you are someone who is worried about not
using the link sticker anymore because
you were like how am I going to get
people on my email list how am I going
to sell my product how am I going to get
more customers this is how instead of
using the link sticker you are going to
tell people to respond with a keyword
and then in exchange you're going to
send them the link so it's just adding
an extra layer into it thus helping your
engagement thus helping your story reach
more people and I argue that it actually
is better from the consumer point of
view because I can't tell you how many
times I have clicked on a link sticker
on someone's Instagram stories but then
either the link hasn't worked or the
form hasn't operated correctly or I've
gotten distracted or I've gotten a text
or a phone call or whatever I've just
lost that link and now the only way that
I can get that link back is if I go back
to that person's story if I remember who
it was I find the person's story I tap
through all their other stories and then
I tap on the link sticker that's
confusing that's challenging instead
it's much easier if I just reply with a
keyword and now I have the link in my DM
inbox so it's much easier to find it's
top of mind if I go to that link in my
DM inbox and something goes wrong I can
message the person right there I can
follow up I can ask questions or if I
just get distracted I can come back to
the link later and so from both the
consumer perspective and the producer
Creator business owner perspective I
think it's really beneficial to use DM
automation that was step three though
the long text post Instagram story and a
big key with with that was it's a single
textt post it's a single story and so
step four in this four-step formula is
that you are posting no more stories for
the remaining 24 hours once you post
that singular text post story we're
posting nothing else no talking head no
sharing our real to our stories no extra
stories no disclaimer no backstory
nothing else just One Singular story for
all of 24 hours let that story expire
once the 24 hours are up you can go back
to willy-nilly posting whatever
Instagram stories you want but for those
24 hours just let it sit there let it
breathe and usually you'll see within
the first few hours if not the first few
minutes the story views are going way up
they are spiking like crazy again this
is something that I do on a weekly basis
it's something that I definitely do
whenever I want to get more revews for a
sale or promotion or a specific idea
that I want more people to hear about
and so go ahead give this a try for
yourself and then let me know in the
comments watch this video give it a try
and then come back and let me know in
the comments down below this YouTube
video what do you think did it work for
you have you tried this before and was
it effective in the past let me know
down in the comments below thank you so
much for watching and before you go I
did want to let you know those 55 story
ideas that I briefly mentioned earlier
that is something that's free for you as
well down in the show notes you can find
55 Instagram story ideas that are free
for you and they are proven to help you
make more sales on Instagram so if you
use those 55 Instagram story ideas you
mix it in with with this four-step
formula and you avoid those four things
that I talked about at the beginning of
today's episode you will get more views
and more sales on your Instagram stories
thank you so much for listening and as
always happy networking
[Music]